Rancher PAYG offerings for AWS and Azure (#1008)
rancher/rancher-docs: versioned_docs/version-2.7/integrations-in-rancher/cloud-marketplace/aws-marketplace-payg-integration/installing-rancher-prime.md

  cattle-system                       rancher-webhook               1/1     1            1           29m
  cert-manager                        cert-manager                  1/1     1            1           32m
  cert-manager                        cert-manager-cainjector       1/1     1            1           32m
  cert-manager                        cert-manager-webhook          1/1     1            1           32m
  ingress-nginx                       ingress-nginx-controller      1/1     1            1           33m
  kube-system                         coredns                       2/2     2            2           38m
  ```

### Check Helm Chart Installation

Check that the Helm chart installation is complete:

```shell
helm ls -n cattle-rancher-csp-deployer-system
```

After completing the Helm chart installation, you can verify the installation was successful:

```shell
helm status rancher-cloud -n cattle-rancher-csp-deployer-system
```

Refer to the [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md) section for a failed installation.

After the Helm chart installation is complete, Rancher Prime is successfully installed.

## Log into the Rancher Dashboard

> You may now log in to the Rancher dashboard by pointing your browser to the Rancher server URL `https://$RANCHER_HOSTNAME`, where the Rancher hostname is the [hostname](#installing-rancher) is your chosen hostname when installing Rancher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may now log in to the Rancher dashboard by pointing your browser to the Rancher server URL `https://$RANCHER_HOSTNAME`, where`$RANCHER_HOSTNAME` is the hostname chosen when [installing Rancher](#installing-rancher).
```

:::note

The Rancher hostname must be resolvable by public DNS. For more details, please refer to the [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md) section.

:::

> ## Uninstalling Rancher Prime PAYG Offering

Reviewer: This section is missing the case where only Rancher Prime PAYG is uninstalled, but the EKS cluster is preserved.

## Log into the Rancher Dashboard

You may now log in to the Rancher dashboard by pointing your browser to the Rancher server URL `https://$RANCHER_HOSTNAME`, where`$RANCHER_HOSTNAME` is the hostname chosen when [installing Rancher](#installing-rancher).

:::note

The Rancher hostname must be resolvable by public DNS. For more details, please refer to the [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md) section.

:::

## Uninstalling Rancher Prime PAYG Offering

Run the following command to uninstall Rancher Prime:

```shell
helm uninstall -n cattle-rancher-csp-deployer-system rancher-cloud
```

Uninstalling Rancher Prime may not cleanly remove all Kubernetes resources that Rancher created. You can use the [Rancher resource cleanup script](https://github.com/rancher/rancher-cleanup) to perform a more comprehensive cleanup.

The best practice for uninstalling the Rancher Prime PAYG offering is to migrate any non-Rancher workloads to a different cluster and destroy the Rancher cluster.

:::important
Ensure you prepare and migrate any non-Rancher workloads off the cluster before destroying the cluster since these resources are not recoverable.

> :::

Reviewer: `important` is not a built-in admonition so you need to use a custom label, e.g. `:::note important`, but since the content itself is about an unrecoverable action `danger` or `warning` may be more appropriate.

---
title: Installing Rancher Prime PAYG on AWS
---

This page covers installing the Rancher Prime PAYG offering on Amazon's AWS Marketplace.

## Preparing your cluster

### OIDC provider

Your EKS cluster requires that you install an OIDC provider. To check that you've installed an OIDC provider, find the OIDC issuer with the following command. Substitute `<cluster-name>` with the name of your EKS cluster and `<region>` with the region where it is running:

```shell
aws eks describe-cluster --name <cluster-name> --region <region> --query cluster.identity.oidc.issuer --output text
```

> This should return an URL, such as `https://oidc.eks.region.amazonaws.com/id/1234567890ABCDEF`. The part after `https://` (e.g. `oidc.eks.region.amazonaws.com/id/1234567890ABCDEF`) is the OIDC Provider Identity. The final section of the URL, `1234567890ABCDEF`, is the OIDC ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should return a URL, such as `https://oidc.eks.region.amazonaws.com/id/1234567890ABCDEF`. The part after `https://` (e.g. `oidc.eks.region.amazonaws.com/id/1234567890ABCDEF`) is the OIDC Provider Identity. The final section of the URL, `1234567890ABCDEF`, is the OIDC ID.
```

```

If the last command produces no output, create an OIDC provider:

```shell
eksctl utils associate-iam-oidc-provider --cluster <cluster-name> --region <region> --approve
```

### IAM Role

You must create an IAM role and an attached policy to provide the necessary permissions. The role name is passed as an argument during the Helm deployment.

Create the role with a `<role-name>` of your choosing (for example, `rancher-csp-iam-role`) and attach the required policy:

```shell
eksctl create iamserviceaccount \
  --name rancher-csp-billing-adapter \
  --namespace cattle-csp-billing-adapter-system \
  --cluster <cluster-name> \
  --region <region> \
  --role-name <role-name> --role-only \
  --attach-policy-arn 'arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringFullAccess' \
  --approve
```

## Installing Rancher  

1. Log Helm into the AWS Marketplace Elastic Container Registry (ECR) to fetch the application. The AWS Marketplace ECR is always in the `us-east-1` region:

  ```shell
  export HELM_EXPERIMENTAL_OCI=1

  aws --region us-east-1 ecr get-login-password \
    | helm registry login --username AWS \
    --password-stdin 709825985650.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
  ```

> 1. Install Rancher with Helm. Customize your Helm installation values if needed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Install Rancher with Helm. Customize your Helm installation values if needed.
```

  cattle-system                       rancher-webhook               1/1     1            1           29m
  cert-manager                        cert-manager                  1/1     1            1           32m
  cert-manager                        cert-manager-cainjector       1/1     1            1           32m
  cert-manager                        cert-manager-webhook          1/1     1            1           32m
  ingress-nginx                       ingress-nginx-controller      1/1     1            1           33m
  kube-system                         coredns                       2/2     2            2           38m
  ```

### Check Helm Chart Installation

1. Check that the Helm chart installation completed:

```shell
helm ls -n cattle-rancher-csp-deployer-system
```

2. Verify the status of the installation:

```shell
helm status rancher-cloud -n cattle-rancher-csp-deployer-system
```

Refer to the [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md) section if installation fails.

When Helm chart installation successfully completes, Rancher Prime will be installed.

## Log into the Rancher Dashboard

> You may now log in to the Rancher dashboard by pointing your browser to the Rancher server URL `https://<host-name>`. The `<host-name>` is the hostname you entered when you [installed Rancher](#installing-rancher).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may now log in to the Rancher dashboard by pointing your browser to the Rancher server URL, `https://<host-name>`. The `<host-name>` is the hostname you entered when you [installed Rancher](#installing-rancher).
```

:::note

> The Rancher hostname must be resolvable by public DNS. For more details, please refer to the [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md) section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Rancher hostname must be resolvable by public DNS. For more details, see [Prerequisites](prerequisites.md).
```

:::

## Uninstalling Rancher Prime PAYG Offering

Run the following command to uninstall Rancher Prime:

```shell
helm uninstall -n cattle-rancher-csp-deployer-system rancher-cloud
```

Uninstalling Rancher Prime may not remove all of the Kubernetes resources created by Rancher. Run the [Rancher resource cleanup script](https://github.com/rancher/rancher-cleanup) to perform a more comprehensive cleanup.

The best practice for uninstalling the Rancher Prime PAYG offering is to migrate any non-Rancher workloads to a different cluster and destroy the Rancher cluster.

> :::note warning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning
```

Warning is built-in so it doesn't need to use a custom label.

https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions

> Ensure you prepare and migrate any non-Rancher workloads off the cluster before destroying the cluster since these resources are not recoverable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure that you prepare and migrate any non-Rancher workloads off of the cluster before you destroy the cluster. These resources are nonrecoverable.
```

Copied from corresponding Azure page
